Congratulations, you made
it to the end of the form
of the expectation maximization algorithm.
So let's summarize some of the properties
and thinks about this Algorithm.
First of all, Algorithm is a method for
training latent variable models.
So if your model has
both latent variables, so
not observed, and observed variables x.
Then you can apply Algorithm to
train it sometimes more efficiently
than some general purpose optimizational
rhythms like stochastic gradient decent.
Well one of the nice properties
about the Is that it allows you
to handle missing data.
And sometimes it allows you
to do it with your favorite
machine learning algorithms
which are not probabilistic.
So in this case, sometimes it's
possible to treat your machine
learning algorithm in probabilistic terms.
And then you can say that, for example, if
you do not observe your variable x to 3,
for example, so
you don't know the value of this feature.
You can say that it's a latent variable.
So all over x's are observed,
but this one is latent.
And then you can apply To train
this model with latent variables,
to get a reasonable solution in this case.
Well, of course you can always use some
heuristics to treat missing values.
For example, you can just throw
away some of the columns and
rows to get rid of the missing values.
Or maybe you can substitute the missing
values with zeros or some averages.
But in a heuristic sense,
really none of this will work.
So although Is not like
guarantees you to always work,
usually in practice if you can apply
it to your problem with missing values,
is better than just to substitute
your missing values with zeroes or
to throw away a bunch of data.
The main idea of the expectation
maximization algorithm is
that you want to maximize your margin
log likelihood, but it's hard.
It's a hard optimization problem.
So instead of that,
you build a variation lower bound,
which depends both on the original
parameters theta and on the variational
parameters q which is some of
distributions you have just introduced.
And then you're trying to maximize
this lower bond with respect to both
theta and q.
In kind of low core and professional.
So in durations you are fix one,
you fix q for example and
maximize with respect to theta.
And then you fix theta and
maximize with respect to q.
And this way you're, instead of your
original complicated optimization problem,
you're solving a sequence of some
different optimization problems,
which are in some,
in practical cases sometimes much simpler.
So for example, in Gaussian mixture model,
you can solve each of
the substep's optimization programs
analytically with almost no
timing condition complexity.
The Expectation Maximization Algorithm
encourages you to converge to some
critical point maybe not optimal, but
at least local maximum or settle point.
And sometimes, it helps you to
handle some complicated constraints.
So in the original problem,
you may had a constraint like
your matrix sigma should
be positive semi-definite.
So it can represent a valid
covariance matrix, right?
And it's hard to apply,
it's hard to force this constraint on
your favorite stochastic gradient descent,
or some other method.
But, in Algorithm,
you're substituting your original
problem by a sequence of simpler ones.
And on the nth step you will, of course,
also have to enforce this constraint.
But since the optimization task is so
much simpler, it's usually much simpler to
enforce these constraints on the nth step,
than in the original problem.
So in the Gaussian mixture model case,
for example, on the nth step, we have
some concave optimization, which is
really much easier than the original one.
And adding this nontrivial positive
semi-definitive constraint doesn't
make the problems that much harder.
So we can still solve
the nth step analytically.
The expectation maximization
algorithm has numerous extensions.
And we will talk about some
of them later in this course.
So If your distribution q, so
your Pasteur distribution on
the latent variables given the data and
the parameters is too hard to work with,
you may do some approximations.
First of all, you can restrict the set
of possible qs, restrict the set of
qs you consider, and find the best
q In this kind of strategic family.
We'll see a small example of
this in the next module but
mostly this will be what week three and
week five is about.
Also if you don't want to approximate,
if you want something,
at least expect it to be,
at least occurs on average.
In this case you can use sampling.
And instead of working with the Pasteur
distribution directly,
you can try to sample points from it.
And then approximate the expected value
on the M-step and solve it approximately.
And this is what week four is about.
How to sample from
complicated distributions.
So some negative features of the Is
that it gives you a local maximum not
the global one.
But it's kind of expected
because it's an problem and
you can't expect anyone to give you
optimal solution in reasonable time.
And also it requires a little bit of
math which you have to get used to.
But, after you do, after you, kind of,
make yourself familiar with these kind of
durations, it becomes very natural to do
in your applications and new problems.
[MUSIC]